# Module 24 - Javascript & The DOM

- DOM: Data representation of HTML elements that make up the structure of a webpage.
- HTML renders JS with < script > tags.
    - Avoid embedding direclty on page.
- < no script > shows message when the website does not allow scripts.

- DOM:   Browser constructs internal represenation of the HTML as the root of the DOM.
    - head/body are children of html root element.

# 24.3 - Selecting Elements on the Dom

- All of HTML accessible through DOM variable: document
- heading = document.querySelector("h1");
    - id: #, class:. , type: h1
- querySelectorAll() - returns a list of matched elements
    - returns a NodeList (similar to an array)
    - use .values() method to iterate or a for loop.
    - you can also use Array.prototoype.forEach() method.
- you can use: querySelector (#class > .id > #class) to get specific children of classes.

# 24.4 - Updating the DOM

- Modify an element:

- Changing the content
    - innerText
        - iterate through desriptions and log inner text value of each description
            - descriptions = doc.querySelector('.descriptions')
                for (let desc of desc.values()) {
                let content = desc.innerText;
                console.log(content)}
    - slice()
        if (content.length > 250) content.slice(0,250); content = content + "..."
        desc.innerText = content;
    - innerHTML
        - content= content + '<a href=''>...</a>'
        - desc.inerHTML = content;

- Changing style
    - style
        -parseFloat(rating.innerText) if (ratingValue > 4) rating.style.fontWeight = 'bold'
    - classList
        - rating.classList.add('rating')

- Creating DOM elements
    - createElement()
        - new = document.createElement("div")
        - new.innerText = ''
    - append with appendChild()
        - header.appendChild(newElement)

- Removing DOM elements
    - main.removeChild(main.queryselector('park'))

# 24.5 - Event Listeners

- Event: action that happens in the browser
    - Mouse actions
    - Typing
    - Touching device
    - Resizing window
    - closing window or tab
    - submitting form
    - finished loading page
- Handle with Event  Handlers
- addEventListener() method - 2 arguments: name of event, event handler
- button.addEventListener("click", (event) => {})
- use Array.from() to make Array from NodeList.
- use element.querySelector() to select elements on a particular node.
- 
- DOMContentLoaded is a window event that runs when dom content is finally loaded.
