# 1 - UX 101

## Defining User Experience

- To practice a set of methods for researching what users want and need, and to design products and services for them
- Overall effect created by interactions that someone has when using a product an service
- UX encompasses several disciplines:
  - research - understanding user sand their needs
  - design: designing user interactions with a product from moment to monet
  - "user experience architect" "user interaction designer"

## What's In A Name?

- a few categories of designers:
  - Interaction Design or Information Architecture: Someone who designs the structure and interactions of an application or product. Interaction designers focus on screens, interactions and workflows, whereas information architects focus on information structures, metada, and findability. Both design how wa user moves through a complex information system from moment to moment
  - Visual Design: Visual layer of an application or product (color palette, typography, hierarchy of info, visual elements). Like the interior designer if the interaction designer is like the architect
  - User Research: Someone who does research into user needs and behavior to get understanding of motivations. Spans up-front discovery all the way through to product validation and testing
  - Content Strategy or copywriting: Thinking abuot role of content across product. Considers how messages are delivered to users, what voice and tone of porduct is, and how and when content is created. Makes sure in-prouct content is consistend and unified
- Most UX teams of one act as generalists
- Other disciplines contribute to result of experience user has with product, including product and project management. Lots of discussions about who gets to claim ownership of user experience

## Where UX Comes From
